FAQ for Week 3 and programming exercise 2
MentorWeek 3 · 3 months ago · Edited

LECTURE VIDEO FAQ

Q1) Where can I find notes on the lecture videos?

The Course Wiki contains notes on the lectures.

The lecture slides themselves are no longer available.

Lecture notes are available in the Resources menu.

QUIZ FAQ

PROGRAMMING ASSIGNMENT FAQ

See the Resources menu for Tutorials and additional test cases.

Q1) My cost function returns the value 0.693. Why doesn't the submit grader give me any points?

The value 0.693 is for a very simple test, where all of the theta values are zero. It is not a robust test of your code. Also, that is not the result the submit grader is looking for. The submit grader uses a different test case entirely. Your code must work on any set of data - of any size. Test your code using the additional test cases via the Resources menu.

Q2) Why do I get an error message about the plot "legend", or other syntax errors in plotData.m?

Be sure you added the code to plotData.m in the big blank area between lines 14 and line 22. Your added code should be after "figure; hold on;" and before "hold off';".

Using copy-and-paste from a PDF file can sometimes cause problems with unprintable formatting characters, so try typing-in the code by hand.

Also, try removing the "..." line continuation characters, and put all of each plot() statement on one line of code.

Q3) I get the correct results for predict(), but the grader gives me no points.

Be sure that your predict function includes use of sigmoid().

Q4) Why do I get this error message when I run ex2.m or submit.m?

error: __doglegm__: operator \: nonconformant arguments ...

The error is due to your cost function returning the gradient as a matrix (or maybe as a row vector - both are bad). Cost J must be a scalar, and grad must be a column vector.

The submit grader does not check the orientation of your gradient. The line of code at the end of the cost function "grad = grad(:)" is there to force the gradient to be returned as a column vector. Do not delete it.

Q5) How does the code in plotDecisionBoundary.m work?

See the Tutorial for ex2, it has a link to an explanation.

Q6) My plot for lambda = 0 doesn't look like Fig. 5 in ex2.pdf. It looks like the one shown below. Why?

A recent change in the MATLAB fminunc() function causes it to give a different decision boundary for the lambda = 0 condition. It gives this figure, which is expected. This is perfectly fine.

If you set lambda to a very small value, you will get Fig. 5 from ex2.pdf.

Q7) When I run the submit script, I get this error. How do I fix it?

"unexpected error: operator /: nonconformant arguments (op1 is 1x1, op2 is 20x3)"

This error is almost always caused by your sigmoid.m function, because you are using the vector division operator '/', instead of the element-wise division operator './'.

Q8) Other sorts of errors from fminunc() giving strange errors about the argument sizes:

Your cost function must return the gradient as a column vector. The submit grader does not check for this. So if your cost function works but fminunc() crashes, check if your cost function returns the correct shape of gradient.

Q9) 0.774 instead of 0.776?

Either answer is acceptable, different versions of Octave and MATLAB give slightly different results.

Q10) Why does my plot of Figure 1 from ex2.pdf look like two separate plots?

You have probably not modified the plotData.m function correctly. The code you add should be below the line "figure; hold on" and above the line "hold off".

Q11) Does logistic regression use the natural log, or the base-10 log?

We use the natural log, which is the function log() in MATLAB/Octave. The base-10 log is "log10()" - do not use it.
